

WAYS TO DEVELOP INTEREST ?


1)  Correlate things with concepts in daily life  activities.

 whatever we are studying is present in our surroundings, in some or the other way, it is

 only that we are not aware of it. If you are learning something new, figure out whether it is

 present in our environment.Also each and every topic has some logic and context behind it, if

 you know that, your mind will accept it with ease. For example, if you are learning science

 your home and environment are the best labs for observations. Many of the concepts have evolved

 and originated out of our daily needs and hence they are easier to Correlate.


 2)  Draw picture using your undetstanding

 whatever you learned, try to draw its picture in your mind. "A PICTURE IS WORTH A THOUSAND WORDS"




 Ask "WHY"
The word "Why" has a power because the answer to it is always loaded with details. Make it a habit to ask "Why" for almost anything and especially the area for which you want to develop your interest.
If you are a parent, encourage your child to ask "Why" for everything and help him/her to build a strong concept and structured knowledge.
If you are a teacher, give your students an assignment to answer "why" for any subject/area of personal choice every day.

Play quizzes
Our mind works best when we are playing and any playful activity will help to learn the concept clearly and quickly. Whatever subject/topic for which you want to develop interest, play a quiz around it, write down your own questions and play with your friends or anybody you feel suitable.
If you are parent or teacher encourage kids to write questions for quiz and help them to play.
Most kids (even adults also) avoid quizzes because there is a fear of judgement, fear of exposure of knowledge and fear of losing the game. So, eliminate the criteria of marks simply encourage the participation.

Have a discussion
Discuss the topic/subject with your friends, teachers, spouse, peers, siblings anybody whom you feel comfortable with. The more you would discuss, the more you would get clarity in your mind and the more you would love it.
Encourage everybody to focus on the details of the concepts. The objective is to understand the concept from all dimensions.
